In Project 2:

You create your own virtual server.
You manage the operating system.
You install software manually.
You become the system administrator.

The PDF describes this as moving from managed services to full system control.


STEP 1: open aws console and search for EC2 in search bar 

STEP 2 : click instance
	launch instance
		name and tag
		Select Operating System ...here we use AMI(Amazon Machine Image)
		instance type.. here we choose t3.micro
		create a key pair.... which is most important for linking server ...choose type as RSA and file format If using Windows + PuTTY then Choose:  .ppk    and If using Windows Terminal / PowerShell / Git Bash (recommended), macOS, or Linux then Choose:  .pem(Do NOT delete this file.
⚠️ Do NOT upload it to GitHub.
⚠️ Keep it in a safe folder.)
		in configure network settings add the configurations like ssh,http,https etc required for the project with appropriate protocols(TCP for modern) and give correct sources 
		and click launch instance

STEP 3: view instance ..check for instance state :running Instance ,Status Check: Initializing  and Public IPv4 Address: Present

STEP 4: HANDSHAKE ...connection to client and server.. which can be done using terminal or putty
	after downloading putty from website ... u get putty app and puttygen app

STEP 5: In puttygen app .. load your .pem file which u downloaded before and click save private key ..so it downloads .ppk file

STEP 6: open putty app . 
	and enter Host Name (or IP address) in box
	attach .ppk file by following process 
		Connection
   			→ SSH
    				→ Auth
       					  → Credentials
		in credentials u find Private key file for authentication.. browse and select .ppk file

STEP 7: Open Session and click open and accept then a terminal appears.

STEP 8: type "sudo dnf update -y" to refresh the page and updated the packages on your Amazon Linux server. and u can see again "[ec2-user@ip-172-31-44-11 ~]$"

STEP 9: download Nginx by typing "sudo dnf install nginx -y" in the terminal .. then u can see "completed!" and "[ec2-user@ip-172-31-44-11 ~]$" in next line

STEP 10: Next is deploying payload ... start the nginx using this prompt "sudo systemctl start nginx".. this command start the web server and this "[ec2-user@ip-172-31-44-11 ~]$" is seen

STEP 11: enter "sudo nano /usr/share/nginx/html/index.html" to open nano and press ctrl+k to remove content line by line and then replace with your html code and press ctrl + O to save and then to exit enter ctrl+X

STEP 12: to verify open the public ipv4 address we used in the this project




We:

1. Created a Virtual Machine

(EC2 instance)

2. Installed an Operating System

(Amazon Linux)

3. Configured Network Security

(Security Groups)

4. Created SSH Authentication

(.pem → .ppk)

5. Connected Remotely

(PuTTY)

6. Installed Software

(Nginx)

7. Modified Files Inside Linux

(index.html)

8. Served Web Content Through Port 80
